Lesson
Opening Bible Verse: 1 Corinthians 15:54–57
“Death is swallowed up in victory…O Death, where is your sting?O Hades, where is your victory?…But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.”
Opener
The Great Lent fast is a long season of fasting, prayer, repentance, and self denial that prepares us for Easter.
It is a journey with Christ that disciplines the flesh and trains the soul to turn away from sin and be made ready for His Passion and Resurrection.
3 Phases
Abiy Tsom / Great Lent = prepare, repent, fast, pray
Holy Week = walk with Christ through His suffering and Cross
Fasika = celebrate that Christ rose and conquered death
Post Abiy Tsom
For the next 50 days after Fasika, we continue celebrating until Pentecost, which is the descent of the Holy Spirit on the Apostles and the public life of the Church.
Regular Wednesday and Friday fasting is suspended.
The Opportunity to Teach Today
Today we have most of our community here. These are the holidays when most of us come together.
Tell story of how many people came to Hosanna.
My Message Today
Today my message to everyone is this:
The Oriental Orthodox Church is the true original Church, instituted by Christ, an Apostolic Church preserved by the Apostles and the Church Fathers, and is the hospital of our soul. Here we find the Body and Blood of Christ.
Early Church
Story of Dn. Mirehet, the early Church Fathers.
St. Athanasius of Alexandria said,
“God became man so that man could become god.”
Theosis definition: becoming united with God by His grace and becoming more like Him.
This does not mean we become God by nature or become equal to Him.
1 John 2:6 — “He who says he abides in Him ought himself also to walk just as He walked.”
John 6:56 — “He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him.”
Our Church embodies this. Salvation was given by Christ. We celebrate this and God’s mercy, love, and compassion.
But through this, our transformation is required. Through His grace, we are transformed, share in His divine life by grace, and grow into holiness.
This is what our Church provides. Our Church provides a hospital that transforms and heals us through our traditions and Sacraments.
Baptism, confession, Holy Communion...
My brothers and sisters, Christ is the Head of the Church, and we are the Body of the Church.
He leads the Church
He gives the Church life
He protects and saves the Church
The Church must remain united to Him
Eucharist
Most of the world is looking for God!
Within the Church we find Him. We find His Body and His Blood.
The medicine of the soul.
In Holy Communion, we partake of His Body and Blood, abide in Him, receive eternal life, and share in the power of His death and Resurrection.
New World
The world is changing.
When I was young, nobody understood why I celebrated Christmas in January or Easter later than the rest. They did not understand why my church service started early in the morning or why I could not always eat the school lunch.
Today they know. Today they witness the power of the Church and our Lord and Savior who leads it.
As we celebrate the victory of Christ, this victory given to us as Christians, let us acknowledge the Church, the opportunity and gift we have to partake in Communion, and continue the legacy of the Church.
Future of the Church
We are the future of the Church.
This is not simply about the baton being passed down to us from our parents. The baton was first given to us by Christ.
My deacon brothers, remember who we serve.
My mezemurans, remember who we praise.
To all of the youth and young adults here today, remember who we worship, and remember the Church.
Christ has risen.
Ending Note
To the newcomers of the Church, we open our arms to you so that you may learn.
We teach theology on Fridays at 6:00 PM. You are welcome to come.